# Questions and Answers

1. Summarize for us the goal of this project and how machine learning is useful in trying to accomplish it. As part of your answer, give some background on the dataset and how it can be used to answer the project question. Were there any outliers in the data when you got it, and how did you handle those?  [relevant rubric items: “data exploration”, “outlier investigation”]

The stated goal of this project is to create a person of interest classifier with a dataset scraped together from the Enron scandal. The actual goal of the project is to demonstrate an ability to apply statistical learning techniques to a toy dataset. This toy dataset was primed with areas to explore and nuggets of bad data to root out. Exploration of the dataset revealed 3 primary sources of information. A manually scraped news article provided labels for our people of interest. A financial reporting spreadsheet that provided the bulk of the data. Finally, a parse of an email dump that was eventually ignored.  

Aside from the email dump, some other items in the dataset were dropped. Entries that did not meet the definition of "person" were dropped (i.e. "Total" and "The Travel Agency in the Park"). An extraneous entry (Eugene Lockhart) was located and dropped. Finally, data that appeared to have been corrupted/shifted on import was dropped (i.e. Robert Belfer and Sanjay Bhatnagar).  

2. What features did you end up using in your POI identifier, and what selection process did you use to pick them? Did you have to do any scaling? Why or why not? As part of the assignment, you should attempt to engineer your own feature that does not come ready-made in the dataset -- explain what feature you tried to make, and the rationale behind it. (You do not necessarily have to use it in the final analysis, only engineer and test it.) In your feature selection step, if you used an algorithm like a decision tree, please also give the feature importances of the features that you use, and if you used an automated feature selection function like SelectKBest, please report the feature scores and reasons for your choice of parameter values.  [relevant rubric items: “create new features”, “intelligently select features”, “properly scale features”]

Feature selection was a result of manual data investigation with some extension into some statistical techniques. One feature that was created during the investigation were booleans for "has_email_data" and "has_financial_data". All observations were found to have financial_data. Not all had email data. This presented an issue where having email could bias the result. The option then is to either weigh the bias of having email data and subtract that bias from the information gained by including the email data or drop the email data. Given the scope of this class and project, the decision was to drop email data. Another option would've been to include only those observations with email data. That may make for an interesting alternate exploration.  

After settling on financial data, the next step in feature selection was dimensionality reduction. I first attempted an adaboosted forest of random stumps as a way of identifying the most impactful features and to mitigate sparsely populated features. That had limited success. Going back to the data revealed highly correlated fields for the payment and stock sections. A rough Lasso Regression was performed on the remaining features to determine which were the most impactful. From that, the three largest contributors to total_payments were selected along with exercised_stock_options.  

3. What algorithm did you end up using? What other one(s) did you try? How did model performance differ between algorithms?  [relevant rubric item: “pick an algorithm”]

When it came to algorithm selection, I decided to compare K-Nearest Neighbors and Support Vector Machines. Both of these are known for their ability to classify smaller datasets.  

4. What does it mean to tune the parameters of an algorithm, and what can happen if you don’t do this well?  How did you tune the parameters of your particular algorithm? What parameters did you tune? (Some algorithms do not have parameters that you need to tune -- if this is the case for the one you picked, identify and briefly explain how you would have done it for the model that was not your final choice or a different model that does utilize parameter tuning, e.g. a decision tree classifier).  [relevant rubric items: “discuss parameter tuning”, “tune the algorithm”]

5. What is validation, and what’s a classic mistake you can make if you do it wrong? How did you validate your analysis?  [relevant rubric items: “discuss validation”, “validation strategy”]

6. Give at least 2 evaluation metrics and your average performance for each of them.  Explain an interpretation of your metrics that says something human-understandable about your algorithm’s performance. [relevant rubric item: “usage of evaluation metrics”]
